Someone needs to make like a
motivational poster that says Lord give
me the confidence of an equity investor
trading on an Axios headline. Like I
feel like that would that would sell
out, right?
>> have one open.
>> Yeah.
Okay. [laughter] And and and
generally we we we have no choice.
If you were to look at the rates market
for example, just as an example, right?
Uh there was a six sigma event that
happened within it. Uh
at some point the pricing gets to a
level where it doesn't make any rational
sense. Okay.
>> Uh so you start to look at that on a on
a more structural basis and you start to
ignore the noise in the middle.
And
whether we like it or not, we have to
operate with that kind of philosophy. So
you take one side or the other. It's
very difficult to trade the headline
because it's impossible because as of
now you had two conflicting headlines.
And you can get caught out.
Uh so most people have come to that
understanding. So you've taken a
perspective or a view that either this
is going to get resolved or if you
believe it's not going to get resolved,
there's a way of expressing it within
the five asset classes where you might
get the most convexity. Similarly, if it
gets resolved, there are certain things
that actually might work which haven't
yet worked. So you take those sides and
you just sit and wait.
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm [music] Tracy
Alloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. Joe, our live
show in London recorded May 7th at
Wilton's Music Hall.
>> [music]
>> A lot has happened since then in
markets. It's hard to have a markets
conversation that, you know, isn't out
of date within like a minute or two. But
but I think this one this one carries
on. I think this one is still relevant.
Well, you know, I have to say
I always feel a little anxious about
recording markets episodes because of
this very phenomenon. But this is true
for our live and our recorded shows that
by the time it comes out, who knows how
much will have changed.
>> This is why you should go to the live
show.
>> why you should go. That's exactly where
I was going to go. It's actually good to
record Markets episodes of the live show
because that's like, all right, you're
creating an inducement to get people to
buy a ticket. But again, you know, with
a lot of these things like how traders
are digesting this particular moment in
time, sure, the headlines and the prices
on the screen change, but there are
certain like principles and frameworks
for understanding what's going on that
will be sort of useful regardless of
what's happening in the meantime. You
mentioned frameworks and that is the
perfect framing for this discussion. So,
we indeed had the perfect guest. We
spoke to someone who's been on quite a
few times before, one of our favorites
for letting us know what the big money
is actually thinking about in trading.
We spoke with Ozan Tormen. He is, of
course, vice chair of global macro over
at Deutsche Bank. We also spoke to his
colleague,
>> Yeah.
>> someone who hasn't been on the show
before, but who has quite a reputation,
one of Deutsche Bank's star bond
traders, Aditcha Single. He is the head
of EM trading across rates, FX, and
credit at Deutsche Bank. So, take a
listen. Let's start with the obvious
question. Lines on the chart keep going
up despite what would seem to be some
challenges to the global economy, to put
it mildly. Why?
First of all, even when I walked in, I
was checking with you guys. It wasn't
like that 15 minutes ago when We're now
recording this at 7:33 p.m. Exactly.
Yeah, 20 seconds. Yeah. When
one agency claimed that Operation
Freedom was back on, that President
Trump could try to open the hormones by
force.
S&P and oil, S&P didn't like that at
all. Oil was surging higher. Then Al
Jazeera denied. So, we're all calmer
again. But
bottom line is why we keep going higher
despite everything that Javier and Logan
said, is because buses are empty. When I
say buses are empty, you know, I only I
don't only talk to my portfolio
managers, but men on the street, to my
college classmates. One of them was
like, "What do you mean buses are empty?
That means investors don't have it."
Um
The analogy is a bit like
closer to April 2nd, April 9th of last
year when we had the big tariff talk.
Billboard up. We thought that it would
be the end of the end of the end of the
year, end of the markets.
Uh then President Trump stepped back.
Yeah. And the markets never looked back.
A bit similar, coincidence or not, March
31st is the is the first time uh
he claimed through Wall Street Journal
that he would separate state of hormones
and the operation.
Uh
that the two could go separately. None
of that happened, but that was the first
big breath market took. And on April
9th,
uh exactly on the same day, the big
first postponement came. He said, "I'm
not going to do anything for 2 weeks."
And since then, markets never looked
back. The historic
led by tech, Nasdaq, and S&P rally.
And you know I talked to all of our
people
>> a lot of, you know, key ladies, guys.
Honestly, maybe three, four, five people
really believed in this rally since
April April 1st, April 9th.
That's one big part of it, but it can't
be all positioning.
Also, fundamentals, right? Earnings.
Yeah. Um again, head of sales,
one of my legendary researchers, Jim
Reid, just today, he was on Bloomberg as
well, talking about earnings. In Q4 of
last year, just 13% growth. Q1, record,
biggest in five five years, led by tech,
24%.
Um
that engine keeps us keeps us going.
>> Yeah, the earnings are what they are.
So, I'm here's something I'm curious.
So, Ozan came in and he gave us the
latest headlines. Thank you, because I
haven't I hadn't been looking
>> Part of my job. Yeah, exactly.
>> look at his phone for 15 minutes, which
might be a record.
>> Um
>> He met me. How do traders deal with a
market in which there's just the sheer
number of headlines. How would you and
how do they know what to take seriously?
And like, yeah, what's real, what's not
real? Like how are they How are they
ingesting news?
So,
from a trading perspective, there's
fundamentally five asset classes, right?
So, you have a thematic view and you
have rates, effects, credit, equities,
and commodities.
And a lot of people are fixated or are
mandated per asset class, or so they So,
they have no choice but to stick within
that kind of regime.
And and then of course, I you if you're
a real money investor or a hedge fund or
if you are
a sell-side trader, just depending on
how you are positioned, right? It's not
really It's difficult to get in and out,
right? So, thematically,
you have to take a structural long-term
view, see what every asset class is
pricing on that particular view, and
define an upside downside kind of
scenario. And based on the liability
profile you have, and that how you
define that is the function of the money
you have, or what kind of drawdowns are
acceptable.
You take a particular position and you
let it play out. So,
in this kind of environment, it's
difficult. So,
what is the upcoming kind of positive
news that you can you can rely on to the
market, right, today? If you were to sit
here today, you say, "Okay, so
uh
the fact that not much action has
happened in the last
three to four weeks within this trade
means that at some point or the other,
the resolution will come. Pakistan is is
mediating, as we can see. Uh
there's been enough talks happening. So,
you you assume that a resolution should
come. That's what the market is pricing,
theoretically.
Uh you also have a situation with
Russia, which is developing, right?
Russia-Ukraine war, which could be
positive or not. And then you have uh
uh
the visit, the US visit to China.
Uh which also is there to positive. Now,
of course, there's a lot of it isn't in
the price per se, but fundamentally
speaking, uh
as a trader, you position yourself.
And and then you just choose, you know,
at some point to
close it at the time, get out.
>> That all makes sense to me, but like are
traders sitting there with a Truth
Social window open? Like the literal
like ingestion of news, how do you do
it? So I'm just just getting the
messages from these Yeah, right. Just
kidding. Well, someone needs to make
like a motivational poster that says,
"Lord, give me the confidence of an
equity investor trading on an Axios
headline."
>> Yeah. Like I feel like that would that
would sell out, right?
>> have one open. Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay. And
generally we we we have no choice,
but but fundamentally it's it's it's
like this, right? So
you uh
you make up you you you see what's So so
we had a
if you were to look at the rates market
for example, just as an example, right?
Uh there was
a six-sigma event that happened within
it. Uh
at some point the pricing gets to a
level where it doesn't make any rational
sense. Okay.
>> Uh so you start to look at that on a on
a more structured basis and you start to
ignore the noise in the middle.
And
whether we like it or not, we have to
operate with that kind of philosophy. So
you take one side or the other. It's
very difficult to trade the headline
because it's impossible because as of
now, you had two conflicting headlines
and you can get caught out.
Uh so most people have come to that
understanding. So you've taken a
perspective or a view
either this is going to get resolved or
if you believe it's not going to get
resolved, there's a way of expressing it
within the five asset classes where you
might get the most convexity. Similarly,
if it gets resolved, there are certain
things that actually might work which
haven't yet worked. So you take those
sides and you just sit and wait.
You know, you mentioned irrationality
just then which means we should talk
about AI, right? Because all of the
stock market rally at this point
essentially seems to be a bet on AI.
What are you hearing from your clients,
Ozan, on how comfortable they feel with
us.
Well,
just two days before the Iran war began,
we were in West Palm Beach and Miami
with Aditi as well, visiting clients.
And then the whole talk of at least that
town, but US in general was that famous
13 piece, the other 50 million sand
piece, something big is about to happen.
How
in 12 to 18 months 50% of white collar
jobs could be wiped out. What that could
mean for
for rates. That in itself is very very
telling, right? And because of that and
one also claims number,
if you remember US 10 year, that Friday
before the bombs came in, closed at 393.
Okay.
>> And one of my more famous friends
clients sends me a message on that
Friday night, bond is the new gold, 393
top to close. Mhm. Then
Iran war happens.
Not that surprising, but of course the
how it played out is very very
surprising.
War flation, hikes getting priced in. So
people completely
pushed aside the slowdown job growth
labor part of it.
And then started completely focusing on
the equity, the growth, the AI engine.
Again, if you just go back to January,
February, we were quote unquote happy
because the thing was broadening out. It
was a rally, but it was a rally led by
Russell as well.
Oh yeah, seems like a long time ago.
Remember 2007 was forgotten and lo and
behold some of us, thank god, have three
month memories. Now now we're
complaining about oh, it's all about
seven stocks. The breath is too too
we're just fighting ways to try to
um
>> [clears throat]
>> fight and wrestle away wrestle away the
rally. But so back to your question, at
the moment yeah, the cool aid is to
believe that this AI run may have
another one to two years um to go.
Paul Tudor Jones, public, one of
definitely my more famous friends
clients, today claimed that that's the
case and made the 1999 analogy. So,
either you
swim with that
or try to fade it.
You know, this is the other thing. All
right, so we talk about the you know,
these very worrisome scenarios, the
price surge in oil, but very worrisome
scenarios about deep shortages in
various commodities. So, that's one
reason to be worried. But then there's
this other thing that basically, you
know, the disinflation is stalled out.
If arguably it's going in the other
direction.
Rates around the world, and you know,
we're I think you know, there was some
sort of what was UK 30-year Uh the
highest since 1998. Yeah, so again,
just intuitively you would think that
these things compound each other. It
should really take the wind out of the
sales of risk appetite.
And yet, so how is it that like even
like, you know, what we see going on and
selling of How does the selling of
sovereign bonds mix into this market in
your view?
So,
let me [clears throat]
let me take this to actually give you a
thematic kind of how to think about
things, right? So, just just to give a
perspective, right? So,
ultimately there's only one thematic
view that matters for the next few
years, right? And that is if you were to
assume
you have China and China-aligned
countries and you have the West, right?
If you were to take China and
China-aligned countries, right? And they
were in space, what does West need
theoretically in both manufacturing and
services? Mhm.
And if you were to reverse the roles,
what does And if the West was in space,
what does China and China-aligned
countries need both in manufacturing and
services? And and the reason I'm
bringing to this point is because I want
to give a perspective.
So, what happened, right, in the last
many years? So, this microphone, for
example, right? This most of the
material in here comes from China.
Right.
>> China-aligned countries. Almost 90%
right? Manufacturing capacity of the
world is 55% China China-aligned, but
some places almost 90 to 95%. Take an
example of cobalt. Cobalt refining all
in China.
Now,
in the past what happened was they would
give you this microphone and you would
give them dollars or pounds or
euros or whatever it is.
So, they hold that. So, China holds
that.
What is the most rational thing for them
to do? The most rational thing for them
to do was to buy your land with that
money. But you said no.
Then they said I'll buy your equities.
You said no to that, too.
Then they said, "What you know what? I'm
going to buy the commodities that you
might need in the future."
You said, "Fine, do it."
Which is what China did for years.
Then, here's the interesting thing. You
said, "In return, let me sell you my
services. So, let me sell you fine wine.
Let me send you
the Gucci,
you know, more you know, phenomenal
bags." Top-tier educational services.
>> Top-tier education. Education and a lot
of other things. And then also services.
Services whether it's uh Microsoft Excel
or whatever it is, right? It
Sure. And now what's happening is you
have that side of the world which is
also building their own services tax.
So, tourism is now onshore.
They started building their own cars up
the chain value chain. So, you're
getting to a stage where
if you expand this
kind of thematic view,
you
in the West have to literally build all
of it from ground up. So, if you assume
China was in space, they can still
disrupt the services sector, but they
can't disrupt the manufacturing sector
theoretically anymore because they
you can you will have to build it all
up. So, if you want cobalt
and if they say no, you have to refine
it, mine it, refine it. You need to have
companies that refine it. You need to
have the engineers that that do that
work. And fundamentally that's what the
fundamental paradigm of the world is.
So, when you talk about sovereign debt,
Yeah. any holding of or any equity
holding, ultimately the creditor is
China and China-allied countries. They
are the creditor to the West and we are
the debtor.
And this is only increasing. So, if you
believe the visit, what is the ultimate
objective agenda of the visit of of the
US
to to China is to balance the current
account
to some extent. That's one agenda. And
there's of course there are certain
other aspects to it, but fundamentally
that's what defines the the kind of
makeshift of the next kind of year two,
three years. And whether we like it or
not, we have to build this.
I want to come back to China versus the
US on AI in just a second, but I I
definitely want to also ask this
question because we are in London.
How big a deal are the UK elections um
from your respective perches? The local
elections that are happening tonight.
It is important because they basically
UK and abroad
there is for the past two years at least
a big fight between fiscal dominance
beliefs
10 years, 30 years, more importantly 30
years uh
around the world will they get more out
of out of control? Since we are in
London, will we have the the earliest
trust two moment?
Or will financial repression mean
meaning emerging market style treasury
and central banks working more closely
together, especially on issuance,
issuing less on the long end, more on
the short end, uh
taking a taking a risk, but uh
making sure that 10 and 30 years are
under the leash. Uh in fact, a very key
investor last summer
as in a smaller round table, what
happens if all four of them this was
probably Augustish before back to school
September races began. Uh US
uh France, Japan, and UK. If all of them
had their trust moments. And then
September came in. I remember us talking
about this. Yes, it happened but only 4
hours in the gilt market and that was
it.
>> remember that little mini that moment.
Yeah. So now there's an excitement again
you know because UK has a different risk
premium
net international investment portfolio
IE has a budget deficit and the current
account deficit has to be nice to the
foreigners because they will buy your
our our debt.
There are question marks on what this
local election may mean for the
government. Will there be a change there
or in the chancellor? Will somebody more
to the left come in?
All these are
under question mark.
Famous last words my feel is for the
moment still this financial repression
will win. We won't have the trust moment
two but obviously we they will need a
little bit of luck
for the Iran situation to continue to
calm down because
unlike the trust moment trust moment one
now all of this is happening for reasons
much beyond the UK.
Joe, I am impressed that we always
manage to schedule these macro
conversations for maximum event risk
between when we record and when it
actually publishes. So we have the UK
elections, everything happening with
Iran and we have non-farm payrolls
tomorrow.
>> There's so much going on and we just
apologize in advance. This is why people
should buy tickets to the event. That's
right. Because if you have to hear this
conversation on the podcast feed who
knows it could be out of date but those
who are here don't have that issue. Is
EMification
of Western policy making is that a fair
is that an apt characterization of it?
Setting aside specific you know
elections here or there. We you hear
that term EMification of and is that
apt?
It again uh
it depends right? So it's country to
country.
Uh
In this again paradigm, you have uh
this
So, so
let's let's take UK as an example. Let's
elaborate further.
Uh
real rates are reasonably high.
the country's gone through a difficult
situation courtesy of what happened with
oil.
The pass-through effect that is
happening pretty much everywhere else in
the world.
You have uh
current account which matters mostly in
most EM countries, including UK. You
have an input factor of energy and you
have an output factor of services,
effectively that you said.
So, depending on where you are in the
world, which country you
depending on who who you are, if you
have a situation where you're an energy
importer, Mhm. and your exports are
highly dependent on
effective services which are getting
disrupted courtesy AI, you're in
trouble.
Uh
Alongside, if you're an importer of
manufacturing also,
or goods,
again, you're in trouble. So,
this adjustment will happen. So, you
have to have allies. You have to have
people who you do a quid pro quo with
and that adjustment is what we're seeing
effectively and markets are finding a
true balance of risk premium alongside.
Well, okay. So, on this point, two
things you've said which sound very
rational on stage, having a series of
allies,
I don't know if those are stable. And
then also, you know, this aspiration to
balance the you know, balance the
current account between the US and
China.
It sounds nice, but like do you think
like Yeah, again, it sounds nice. Are
there actually any real prospects of
moving the dial on that kind of thing?
So, uh
>> [clears throat]
>> again, I don't want to comment to this
is in terms of our house view, but
I'll I'll I'll give you a general
perspective.
On the same example, if you were to
get West in space and ask China what
does it need from the West? Yeah. It's
not much.
Yeah, I've heard. Apart from Boeing and
Airbus spare parts.
If you were to just look at it from that
perspective. So So
you there is a desire
uh
and maybe there is an
they will oblige.
I do think
there is certain things like for example
agricultural products that could
benefit. There are certain aspects
but fundamentally unless we choose
within West build the whole
manufacturing stack, it's going to be
very difficult to keep this current
account balanced. Yeah. And on top of it
the biggest worry and again I'm maybe
jumping on this point is
when people talk about the AI stack that
the West is investing in the capex stack
that the West is investing in.
The key is not what the West is doing.
The key is to understand what China is
doing in it.
Understand what they are doing with
the deep sea version four models, the
GLM-5, the Huawei clusters. I can go on.
With an optical computer, there are
quantum computing, there are many more
things that they're actually investing a
lot in.
Which effectively
becomes a true competition and a cost
factor reduction.
If there is a risk, that is the risk to
watch out for, right? It's not to study
what we're doing here because we will
find ways to keep evolving.
But you have Yeah. an ecosystem there
which is actually quite
quite well versed and also has a lot of
capital behind it.
And
you know, there was somebody who was
quoted says most of the engineers today
actually are in that that part of the
world. Wait, sorry.
>> sorry to say Go ahead. And another thing
that the market miscalculated, right?
Right after Trump got elected to the
second time
uh
December 24, January 25, by far the big
consensus trade besides the US 10 years
going to 550, you know, everybody being
dollar long was to buy these dollar CNH
options strikes at 775 and 8.
>> Everyone I knew was buying dollars CNH
up. There you go. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Keep
going. Yeah, yeah. And and what
happened? It's it's the star the star
currency is the other one, CNH. So, that
shows you even though some people are
really into saying markets are never
wrong, you're wrong, that can be very
very wrong itself. So, we're all human
beings and certainly that can make
markets very wrong itself. One more
Asian country that we need to talk about
to bring it right to the market, Japan,
right? So, to your question, higher oil,
higher rates, why doesn't this thing
bring down equities? Why are these you
know, why is this guy Ozan sending
messages? Bus is empty, nobody's buying
it. It can be quite frustrating, right?
Last Thursday, Friday, it almost
happened because you know, it just felt
itchy.
Dollar yen looked like it would break
160. It looked like
US rates would continue to sell off. Um
Hormuz again question mark. There was
there wasn't detente.
Um and then
just like the rate check off at the
beginning of the year, one of my closest
friends on not on our trading floor but
on the sector,
I had heard this big Irish voice, you
know, you know, this is you know, Fed
New York calling on behalf of Bank of
Japan. I'm like, what's going on with
this guy? And because he was shouting
around because they they want to make
sure that
you know, public information, they told
those three banks that they called would
let others know that they were watching.
Similar this time around, Fed didn't
call, Bank of Japan itself came
and they punted for risk parity. What
does that mean? They punted for lower
volatility, calmer waters,
um and stable rates. The moment they
push down yen's dollar yen lower, yen
stronger, US rates come down, equities
got a bid, etc. etc. So, it's always a
tug-of-war. On one side,
risk parity camp, mostly central banks
trying to keep things calm.
And on the other side, sometimes my dear
fast money friends looking for
more 2022 like years Christmas come
early every Friday another 50 base
points sell off on TY US 10 year higher
volatility etc. etc. And us stay in the
middle and try to decide which one is
right. Can't you just tell your fast
money friends to calm down for a little
bit?
>> No, I don't. They usually listen to me.
I teacher, I I want to go back to what
you were saying about US versus Chinese
AI models because if we think about how
much the stock market rally is actually
dependent on AI at the moment and how
much of the AI story is dependent on
this idea that like well the West has
these amazing more sophisticated albeit
more expensive models for which the you
know TAM is basically the entire world
and you're arguing that actually that's
not the case and China's models are
perfectly suited for its own needs.
Elaborate on that. How are you as a sort
of
trader
evaluating these models? How much of
your day basically is now just trying to
figure out AI?
So,
it's a very very good question and
the key here is
is to understand what are you So so
currently there's a whole there is a big
a strong narrative. Yes, also a very
strong use case.
Now, the valuation stack versus a
forward earnings kind of multiple,
right? If you were to look at it, right?
Says that there is going to be a huge
capex investment within the Western
stack for the next three or four years.
And that's what created this rally
within various companies and the second
order effect companies.
China is doing something similar. Uh
it's very clearly this said in the West
that they are effectively using Nvidia
chips and Nvidia's just a company just
to give an example, but just their chips
to train the models in reality
now they have Huawei chips which are
pretty much parallel or comparable to
H100 processors.
The big problem and the and that the
West is not appreciating is is that the
the reason West is investing so much in
capex is because they want to
effectively get to superhuman
intelligence very quickly. So, almost
everybody's saying, "Okay, you have a
model that has 7 trillion parameters.
We're going to 15, maybe at 25, 50."
And it becomes self-learning.
And it's a reinforcement.
But the reality is you have things like
distributive AI. You have things like
which is actually being worked on in the
West. You have also things which are
very different, which is something as
simple as quantum computing or
I would say
optical GPUs, right? It's another
concept. Please read about it.
So, you have currently There was a There
was a narrative in the West where
you had
GPUs of Nvidia and you had a copper
connector between them. Now, you have
optical compute phones or optical phones
effectively that have done very well in
the last many kind of months.
So, this narrative will remain, right?
Having said that, if you keep an eye on
what's going on on the other side of the
world, also use case in terms of actual
uptake of usage because it's not like
I'm going to run five different
AI models together. I'm going to
probably converge to one at some point.
Will eventually cause some kind of a
problem in the future. The second thing
that you have to keep an eye on is also
robotics. That's the other aspect which
is going to be the second narrative that
is actually going to start within the
Western stack,
uh which is the Elon Musk revolution of
Optimus.
And again, something to keep an eye on
what's happening in China within it
versus what's happening in West and how
deficient is West on it. Just real
quickly because we have like a minute
left. You talk about, "Okay, this
microphone that we're talking to almost
certainly the majority of it or all of
it probably made in China." How much do
you see clients or people that you talk
to purchasing Chinese financial assets,
including Chinese government bonds,
which more and more people are talking
about not just a safe haven, but a safe
haven that's done well and a
diversifier. And how much is that
becoming a meaningful part of portfolio
construction?
It can grow. I mean, already it's it's
happening with if if FX, but you know,
people
uh
first denial then anger then
acknowledgement, right? They realize
that the FX trade train has moved. Uh to
your question, government bonds, Chinese
assets, uh just 2 3 years ago, even when
I went to Singapore's and Hong Kong's of
the world, people were either fearing,
claiming,
being very confident that China was
uninvestable. Yeah, I remember that.
>> And deep inside I was saying, "If China
is uninvestable, you know, your future
in Singapore and Hong Kong"
I turned out to be correct, right? But
it it turns out
it it it starts with FX, but there is
still a lot more room to go in Chinese
equities and Chinese bonds. That bus is
also not full. Okay.
All right, lots of empty buses around.
Ozan and Aditi, thank you so much for
coming on Odd Lots. Really appreciate
it. THANKS FOR HOSTING US.
>> [applause]
>> THAT WAS OUR CONVERSATION RECORDED LIVE
IN London on May 7th. I'm Tracy Alloway.
You can follow me at Tracy Alloway. And
I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow me at
The Stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman and
Bennett at Dash Bot Kilbrooks at
Kilbrooks and Kevin Lozano at Kevin
Lloyd Lozano. And for more Odd Lots
content, you can check out our daily
newsletter. You'll find that at
bloomberg.com/oddlots.
And you can chat about all of these
topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please like the video, leave a
comment, or better yet, subscribe.
Thanks for watching.
>> [music]